Beginning:
Introduction to vim talk
Try to open why learning vim could be useful
Talk about basic Vim stuff
How many of you here uses Vim on daily basis?
How many of you have used Vim before?
How many of you have heard of vim but haven't give it a try?
I've used vim less than a year
(joke)
So why people are not using vim?


Vim learning wall:
Learning curve is actually a wall
Learning vim is hard and painful
Hardest in the beginning
You will be upset and probably want to quit
I think everyone has been there wondering how to exit vim
Overtime you will become more productive
Tell how I try to learn vim couple of times


Where to find me:
Talk about myself and where to find me


Why I recommend vim:
So why you should go through all that trouble to learn vim?
Benefits are huge compared to normal IDE
Get rid of your mouse and use your keyboard only -> much more efficient
You will spend less time on unnecessary hand movement
Much more efficient editing code than keyboard and mouse
You can customize vim to your liking, if you don't find something good you can change it
You can learn new things and become much more efficient
Once you learn vim the mentality will stick with you and you want it elsewhere too
Learn vim and become one of those people and maybe look cool
I personally don't like to use normal text editor anymore after you conquer the wall
I can say it's worth the time


Vim is all about modes:
Vim is a modal editor with modes
Where normal editor is stuck all the time
How to move between modes?
(change slide)
Keys of course!
With vim you use esc a lot
Tell that tip for that is coming later
Go through different modes by talking


Basic movement:
How to move around in normal mode
Show basic movement in vim and how to enter modes
Show basic editing commands, undo, redo, insert etc.


Composing commands:
Efficiency of editing comes from this
Number is multiplier how many times given command is executed
Command what will be done
Text object/motion tells on which part to operate on
Number can appear before or after command
If you repeat command it will operate on line


Command language questions:
This blew my mind
Go through and ask the audience does anyone know how to do this


Configuring vim:
Where vimrc lives
At the beginning vim might look ugly and not okay for you
You have to configure it
All settings goes here
Set keybindings, what plugins to use, plugin settings etc.
At the beginning start with empty file
Don't copy anyone's file without understanding what you're doing
Read others vimrc files and try their settings
Little by little modify Vim to your liking.
Put this file to version control or cloud based storage like dropbox.
I keep mine in dropbox


Some useful plugins:
Show some useful plugins in action
Ask also if people know fzf or ag and have they used them?
Demonstrate fzf features on command line and then on vim


Useful tips:
Demo tabs as views and using different nerd trees on them too.
Demo recording macro and execute it. Then repeat it with .
Demo recording macro and then repeating it
Demo help with NERDTree to show you can documentation for plugins


Vim elsewhere:
When you get used to vim you want to have the keys other places too
Demo Vimium on chrome
At work we have windows based platform and best results so far I have had with WSL
